Following on from the workshop of February 19 2009 - [reports
here](Workshop%20reports.html){.wiki_link} - a small group of staff and
Fellows are meeting on March 6 to discuss next steps in development of
RSA networks, and general networking among Fellows and friends.\
\
The main idea is that of a “toolkit” that would help Fellows
self-organise connections online and face to face. Tessy Britton
[outlined the idea
here](http://openrsa.blogspot.com/2009/02/making-connecting-and-initiating-easy.html){.wiki_link_ext}.\
\
***Anyone interested is invited to submit a slide for the meeting - see
below***\
\
### []()Meeting outline {#toc0}

\
Posted to the [Google
group](http://groups.google.com/group/openrsa/browse_thread/thread/bf6e34d19f5097d1/77aadfe4aaa4360a?show_docid=77aadfe4aaa4360a){.wiki_link_ext}
by Tessy Britton\
\
Meeting outline\
6th Mar 2009 11:30am\
\
This is intended as an initial meeting with interested Fellows and staff
members from the Fellowship team to discuss ideas concerning taking
pro-active steps to help Fellows initiate activities or events by
creating interest groups and/or meetups. The idea originated from an
understanding that Fellows currently feel that initiating activities and
groups within the network feels like a high risk proposition.\
Fellows might wish to initiate something themselves, but lack confidence
in managing the process from a practical perspective.\
\
Some Fellows may:\
-   have concerns about contacting local Fellows
-   worry about people not turning up
-   have financial concerns of setting something up unsupported
-   assume there is lots of red tape
-   feel unsure how to sustain interest
-   lack ideas or experience of possible different formats e.g. Open
    Dinners, Meetups, Open Space etc;
-   lack IT skills

As an initial starting point this meeting would hope to:\
-   Outline the scope of the project: Needs, perspectives, long term
    possibilities
-   Look at process challenges: Crossing/incorporating other projects,
    RSA/Fellow collaboration
-   Examine possible methodologies for community design: discuss methods
    that ensure the project crosses geographic challenges and all
    fellows have the opportunity to give their advice or input.
-   Next steps, including: strategy, time-scales, responsibilities,
    funding

\
Diverse Fellow perspectives are essential, so any Fellows who are
interested in developing the project, but can’t attend this initial
meeting, will have opportunities to input further into the project, both
online and offline, should it proceed.\
\
### []()Invitation to contribute from Tessy Britton {#toc1}

\
Hi Everyone\
\
As mentioned we are having an initial meeting with RSAN on Friday 6th
March (this week!). We would love to have some thoughts from you before
the meeting if possible :)\
\
As an initial feeding in of thoughts on these issues we wondered if you
could give some thought to the idea of ‘participation’ and RSA networks
and prepare one slide to form part of a collaborative slide presentation
for the Toolkits meeting?\
\
1. Proposition - What works in the current proposition? What do you
think is missing for you? What would help you recommend RSA Fellowship
to someone you knew ….. Join RSA because it will …\
2. Current Barriers - What are your current barriers for participation?
Conceptual, Practical, Psychological?\
3. Tools - What could the RSA do to help you participate more? What
could Fellows do to help Fellows participate more? \[By tools we mean
both technology but also community building and network strategies and
ideas - including space etc\]\
\
We would need your slide by lunch time on Thursday 5th March to be
incorporated - creative approaches welcome (please) …: not\
necessarily bullet points\
\
I might put the slides up on Voicethread so that we can enrich with
further comments …. we like doing stuff like that….\
\
The lively online discussion continues on Matthew’s Blog and Jemima
Gibbons Blog too..\
<http://www.interactiveknowhow.com/2009/02/for-hes-a-jolly-good-fellow/>\
<http://www.matthewtaylorsblog.com/thersa/coming-clean-about-membership/>\
\
**Slides to Tessy Britton <brittons100@btinternet.com>**\

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Update**: the meeting was very positive, and we’ll shortly have
further news on the Google discussion group - see link below. There was
strong support from RSA staff for the idea of connecting toolkits, and
encouragement for Fellows to take a lead - David Wiclx\
\

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Discussion also continues on the Google group: you can see the archive
and [sign up here.](Joining%20in%20the%20discussion.html){.wiki_link}\
\
For further information contact:\
Tessy Britton <brittons100@btinternet.com>\
David Wilcox <david@socialreporter.com>
