# OpenRSA workspace reports

This is a page for reports, observations and ideas about the [workshop of February 19 2009](february_2009 workshop.md).  
In order to add content, just click “edit this page”, type in your stuff, click save
and you are done. If you get something wrong or delete other people’s
material, don’t worry … you can “re-wind”. Just go to the history tab.

Email [david@socialreporter.com](mailto:david@socialreporter.com)
if you have any problems, or would prefer that I add content for you
here, or if you would like to author content directly on the
[OpenRSA blog](http://openrsa.blogspot.com/). I’ll give you a
login. If you want to share you contact details, \[\[Connections|please
add them to this page &gt;\]\] There also a page for related items about
\[\[RSA developments and leadership\]\] &gt; **Details of the
follow-through meeting on March 6 2009 \[\[RSAN meeting March 6
2009|here\]\] &gt;**

  ----
  ==Bl
  og
  item
  s==
  <spa
  n
  styl
  e="c
  olor
  : rg
  b(0,
   128
  , 18
  );">
  **//
  Plea
  se
  add
  any
  othe
  r
  blog
  item
  link
  s
  to
  this
  sect
  ion:
  //**
  </sp
  an>
  \[\[
  http
  ://w
  ww.l
  4l.c
  o.uk
  /?p=
  383|
  Refl
  ecti
  ng
  on
  the
  RSA
  -
  mode
  llli
  ng
  the
  futu
  re
  …\]\
  ]
  Leon
  Cych
  puts
  the
  work
  shop
  into
  the
  bigg
  er
  cont
  ext
  of
  peop
  le
  with
  shar
  ed
  inte
  rest
  s
  meet
  ing
  thro
  ugh
  soci
  al
  netw
  orki
  ng,
  and
  offe
  r
  a
  rich
  mix
  of
  phot
  os
  and
  vide
  o.
  More
  prom
  ised
  .

  \[\[
  http
  ://w
  ww.a
  rtla
  b.or
  g.uk
  /rsa
  -wor
  ksho
  p.ht
  m|Da
  vid
  Gaun
  tlet
  t’s
  9-mi
  nute
  summ
  ary
  vide
  o\]\
  ]
  Vide
  o
  most
  ly
  abou
  t
  the
  work
  shop
  proc
  ess,
  but
  incl
  udin
  g
  expl
  anat
  ion
  of
  each
  grou
  p’s
  mode
  l
  and
  thei
  r
  meta
  phor
  s
  for
  the
  RSA
  past
  ,
  pres
  ent
  and
  futu
  re.

  \[\[
  http
  ://o
  penr
  sa.b
  logs
  pot.
  com/
  2009
  /02/
  newc
  omer
  s-pe
  rspe
  ctiv
  e.ht
  ml|A
  Newc
  omer
  s
  Pers
  pect
  ive\
  ]\]
  Mike
  Amos
  -Sim
  pson
  says
  he
  foun
  d
  the
  day
  a
  mixe
  d
  bag
  of
  frus
  trat
  ion,
  conf
  usio
  n,
  inte
  rest
  and
  opti
  mism

  \[\[
  http
  ://t
  hriv
  ingt
  oo.t
  ypep
  ad.c
  om/t
  hriv
  ing\
  _too
  /200
  9/02
  /the
  -fut
  ure-
  of-r
  sa-n
  etwo
  rks.
  html
  |The
  Futu
  re
  of
  RSA
  Netw
  orks
  \]\]
  Tess
  y
  Brit
  ton
  conf
  irms
  “It
  was
  such
  an
  inte
  rest
  ing
  afte
  rnoo
  n,
  with
  lots
  of
  real
  ly
  love
  ly
  peop
  le.

  \[\[
  http
  ://w
  ww.i
  nter
  acti
  vekn
  owho
  w.co
  m/20
  09/0
  2/fo
  r-he
  s-a-
  joll
  y-go
  od-f
  ello
  w/|F
  or
  he’s
  a
  joll
  y
  good
  Fell
  ow?\
  ]\]
  Jemi
  ma
  Gibb
  ons
  refl
  ects
  on
  the
  work
  shop
  ,
  the
  visi
  on
  of a
  dist
  ribu
  ted
  netw
  ork,
  and
  the
  chal
  leng
  e
  that
  pres
  ents
  for
  the
  cult
  ure
  and
  lead
  ersh
  ip
  of
  RSA.
  ----

==Your reports== //**<span style="color: rgb(0, 128, 18);">Please add
reports here:</span>**//

**From Laura Billings (RSA Fellowship Research):** My notes from the day
- a few of themes that stood out for me //problem// - current confusion
around the diversity of ideas and tools available for discussion
//possible solutions// - combining/aggregating outputs, filter
mechanisms, tagging / taxonomy, ability to use tools you are comfortable
with

//problem// - the need for more skilled coordinators to make links and
keep momentum going //possible solutions// - specific role for certain
Fellows, possible recompense for taking on such a role, more hired staff
(hard in economic climate)

//problem// - the need for face to face conversations and meeting spaces
//possible solutions// - ‘last Friday club’ type meetings, regular fixed
venue and places across UK, issues with lack of meeting space available
in RSA House

//problem// - the need to reach whole audience, online, offline and
inbetweeners //possible solutions// - buddy system, Fellows willing to
pass information on or teach online skills, personlised data
publications to bridge gap, possible extra cost for this service,
critical cut off point where company policy is online comms?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**From Stefan Lubomirski de Vaux (lubo) FRSA:** I found it a very useful
and enjoyable event, that confirmed yet again that the RSA is the
institution for me. What I saw and heard from the many discussions and
interactions that there is some confusion as to whether this is an
organisation run by its members or led by its management?. I think it
needs to find some sort of happy balance between the two. Present
efforts including yesterday’s workshop, seem to be focused on finding
more and more ways of letting Fellows and outsiders interact, across a
dizzying array of platforms, whilst not yet working out how to absorb
this mountain of chat into meaningful and actionable activities.

The problem of how to bring offline fellows into the debate and
activities was discussed and the outlines of a “buddy system emerged
which looks like bridging the gap, if it can be better defined and ways
found to link generous buddies to their offline neighbours!

The workshop itself was well run, with all of us creating models from
Lego and plasticine that surprised me in their effectiveness in exposing
issues in a way that catalysed debate. A consensus emerged that there
should be a room or rooms allocated for Fellows and their guests to meet
that was light and spacious and not the Gerrard Bar, or the restaurant,
where discussions could take place on thses topics and networking could
go on in the real world.

There needs to be a system that when the RSA responds to ideas from the
fellows that result in action groups and activities that the continue to
get support and resources until they stand on their own two legs.

finally that this mountain of discussion and ideas that come from SIGS,
Events, Twitter, Facebook etc. be regularly reviewed by the leadership,
suggested priorities drawn up, along with draft levels of resources to
be assigned, then maybe voted on by Fellows at which items get backing,
which get put on hold and which get rejected.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

//\[Some material not related to the 19th Feb workshop, which appeared
here, has now been achived to this page’s discussion page.\]//

  ----
  ==Wh
  at
  next
  ==
  <spa
  n
  styl
  e="f
  ont-
  size
  : 11
  pt;"
  >Som
  e
  thou
  ghts
  on
  19th
  Feb
  RSA
  meet
  ing
  –
  Andr
  ew
  Dark
  e
  Cert
  ainl
  y
  an
  inte
  rest
  ing
  afte
  rnoo
  n
  – a
  lot
  of
  good
  stuf
  f
  was
  said
  –
  did
  we
  catc
  h
  it
  all?
  The
  3D
  mode
  llin
  g
  was
  a
  good
  way
  to
  get
  peop
  le
  disc
  ussi
  ng
  and
  expl
  aini
  ng
  BUT
  I
  kept
  feel
  ing
  that
  the
  conv
  ersa
  tion
  s
  that
  took
  plac
  e
  AS
  MODE
  LS
  WERE
  MADE
  were
  real
  ly
  inte
  rest
  ing,
  as
  well
  as
  the
  fina
  l
  mode
  ls
  and
  thei
  r
  expl
  anat
  ions
  .
  So -
  reco
  rd
  the
  conv
  ersa
  tion
  s
  as
  well
  .
  The
  foll
  owin
  g
  are
  impo
  rtan
  t
  thin
  gs
  I
  felt
  ther
  e
  was
  a
  cons
  ensu
  s
  abou
  t:</
  span
  >
  \#
  <spa
  n
  styl
  e="f
  ont-
  size
  : 11
  pt;"
  >Tho
  se
  who
  don’
  t
  get
  on
  well
  with
  comp
  uter
  s
  /
  inte
  rnet
  MUST
  be
  faci
  lita
  ted
  equa
  lly
  well
  .
  Face
  to
  face
  is
  prob
  ably
  more
  impo
  rtan
  t
  than
  onli
  ne.<
  /spa
  n>
  \#
  <spa
  n
  styl
  e="f
  ont-
  size
  : 11
  pt;"
  >Eve
  ry
  RSA
  even
  t
  shou
  ld
  have
  RSA
  Netw
  orks
  peop
  le
  with
  badg
  e
  /
  labe
  l
  so
  that
  thos
  e
  not
  yet
  invo
  lved
  know
  who
  they
  can
  ask.
  The
  afte
  r
  lect
  ure
  /
  even
  t
  peri
  od
  shou
  ld
  be
  leng
  then
  ed
  as
  much
  as
  poss
  ible
  to
  allo
  w
  as
  much
  soci
  alis
  ing
  as
  poss
  ible
  .</s
  pan>
  \#
  <spa
  n
  styl
  e="f
  ont-
  size
  : 11
  pt;"
  >All
  lect
  urer
  s
  shou
  ld
  have
  it
  stat
  ed
  in
  thei
  r
  cont
  ract
  s
  that
  they
  shou
  ld
  make
  them
  selv
  es
  avai
  labl
  e
  afte
  rwar
  ds
  for
  info
  rmal
  disc
  ussi
  on.<
  /spa
  n>
  \#
  <spa
  n
  styl
  e="f
  ont-
  size
  : 11
  pt;"
  >Mor
  e
  meet
  ing
  spac
  e
  shou
  ld
  be
  avai
  labl
  e
  for
  Fell
  ows
  at
  all
  time
  s
  in
  the
  Hous
  e.
  Plea
  se
  woul
  d
  staf
  f
  dire
  ct
  me
  to
  wher
  e
  I
  can
  find
  out
  the
  pres
  ent
  patt
  ern
  of
  usag
  e
  of
  the
  room
  s
  and
  what
  they
  each
  cont
  ribu
  ted
  fina
  ncia
  lly
  over
  the
  last
  year
  .</s
  pan>
  \#
  <spa
  n
  styl
  e="f
  ont-
  size
  : 11
  pt;"
  >How
  shou
  ld
  we
  eval
  uate
  the
  qual
  ity
  of
  idea
  s
  and
  prop
  osal
  s
  whic
  h
  emer
  ge
  and
  then
  make
  deci
  sion
  s
  as
  to
  whic
  h
  shou
  ld
  be
  take
  n
  forw
  ard
  /
  rece
  ive
  fund
  ing.
  A
  whol
  e
  proc
  ess
  is
  requ
  ired
  here
  .</s
  pan>
  \#
  <spa
  n
  styl
  e="f
  ont-
  size
  : 11
  pt;"
  >We
  shou
  ld
  ensu
  re
  a
  cert
  ain
  amou
  nt
  of
  ‘enl
  ight
  ened
  dict
  ator
  ship
  ’
  deci
  sion
  maki
  ng
  as
  well
  as
  cons
  ensu
  s
  /
  demo
  crat
  ic
  deci
  sion
  maki
  ng,
  so
  that
  the
  powe
  r
  of
  indi
  vidu
  al
  visi
  on
  is
  not
  lost
  .</s
  pan>
  \#
  <spa
  n
  styl
  e="f
  ont-
  size
  : 11
  pt;"
  >Are
  ther
  e
  too
  many
  onli
  ne
  plat
  form
  s
  alre
  ady
  – so
  disc
  ussi
  on
  is
  diss
  ipat
  ed?<
  /spa
  n>
  \#
  <spa
  n
  styl
  e="f
  ont-
  size
  : 11
  pt;"
  >Ref
  inin
  g
  the
  sear
  ch
  aspe
  ct
  of
  the
  Fell
  ow
  data
  base
  is
  urge
  nt.<
  /spa
  n>
  <spa
  n
  styl
  e="f
  ont-
  size
  : 11
  pt;"
  >Tha
  t’s
  it
  for
  now
  and
  than
  ks
  to
  Lizz
  ie
  Jack
  son,
  Davi
  d
  Gaun
  tlet
  t
  and
  the
  Laur
  as.<
  /spa
  n>
  ps.
  Recy
  clin
  g
  arra
  ngem
  ents
  need
  ed
  for
  plas
  tici
  ne
  and
  lego
  next
  time
  !
  //<s
  pan
  styl
  e="c
  olor
  : rg
  b(82
  , 82
  , 82
  );">
  \[Da
  vid
  Gaun
  tlet
  t
  note
  s:
  The
  Lego
  will
  all
  be
  re-u
  sed;
  but
  I
  don’
  t
  know
  what
  to
  do
  with
  lots
  of
  mess
  ed-t
  oget
  her
  plas
  tici
  ne
  …
  any
  sugg
  esti
  ons
  welc
  omed
  !\]<
  /spa
  n>//

  ----

A few thoughts from Laura Bunt:

First and foremost what struck me was a strong feeling of coalescence;
as each group shared their thinking it was fascinating how much similar
themes were emerging and similar questions were being asked. A couple of
consensus points in particular…

-   A buddy system to welcome new Fellows, provide support to existing
    Fellows in online participation, event support, project design,
    networking etc and build new relationships. This has been taken
    forward as part of the new Fellows’ experience as well as making up
    part of the team’s network development strategy across the
    Fellowship - Vivs Long Ferguson is leading on this and working with
    Tessy Britton and other Fellows to design a Fellows’ Connection
    Toolkit to facilitate networks.
-   Increased opportunities for Fellows to meet in JAS and across
    the UK. An explicit part of the team’s remit is working with the
    House team to build on opportunities for Fellows in the House and to
    develop the offer. One particular result is a monthly get together
    hosted and facilitated by the RSA where Fellows can meet, share
    ideas and broaden their network. More info and registration here -
    http://www.londoncitynetwork.eventbrite.com/
-   Increased capacity for facilitation and (particularly) online
    community support to enable a greater sense of connectivity within
    the Fellowship. As well as designating an online facilitator, the
    team is looking at how we can support a network of RSA ‘buddies’ and
    friends to build and develop the network.
-   That we need to consolidate and communicate the various platforms,
    opportunities for Fellowship engagement and make the ‘offer’ clear
    whilst ensuring we remain open and invite participation from a range
    of people with a range of preferred approaches. If I may speak
    plainly, something Dan Dimmock said really stuck out for me on
    Thursday - that there is the potential to overwhelm people with too
    many platforms and sub brands… There’s some work for us to do around
    consolidating and refining the different platforms that the RSA
    offers and communicating that effectively. The various blogs, wiki
    spaces, comment boards, platforms are all there which is great and
    the RSA needs to celebrate and consolidate that.
-   The search aspect of the Fellowship database needs to be visible and
    open to all Fellows so everyone can find each other. So nearly there
    and oh so very urgent…
-   That there needs to be a transparent, open system by which ideas are
    put forward and developed by Fellows and staff and RSA resources are
    allocated where necessary/appropriate. The governance and decision
    making processes of this need to be communicated to everyone.
    Michael Devlin, Katherine and I have been working on a project
    development process that intends to meet all of these criteria as I
    agree it’s absolutely essential. As I said at the workshop, I think
    the area of criteria and definition has been too hazy up until this
    point and the Fellowship charter and invitation process ought to
    make that clearer.

I found it fascinating at the event and drawing from the reports how
true it is that the invitation needs to be clear. Even for this
workshop, perhaps people were a little confused by the invitation and
weren’t sure what to expect from the workshop. This may have led to some
of the frustrations people have expressed. Hopefully it held some
pleasant surprises too. Sharing expectations and hopes before the event
built up a nice buzz and gave people the chance to co-design the agenda
but perhaps where expectations weren’t met it may have been a question
of communicating. With such a diverse range of expectations, experiences
and perspectives it can be difficult to be all things to all people.

## I think this is a lesson I took from the workshop as a whole. The RSA’s strength is in its diversity and we as the staff team need to remain open and articulate in responding to a range of different expectations. This is a tough challenge but we have the enthusiasm and commitment to take it forward. What unites the RSA Fellowship is a shared ethos and shared ambition for the world rather than a subscription to a set of services. However, the RSA wants to support its Fellowship and so we need to provide the environment in which these ambitions can be realised. The RSA is its Fellowship; access and influence within that Fellowship is why people join the RSA. By opening up, making the Fellowship accessible and stimulating and supporting new collaborations we can become the optimistic network that we left the room as on Thursday.

===Follow up meeting=== Details of meeting on March 6 2009 \[\[RSAN
meeting March 6 2009|here\]\]
