On November 20 2008 RSA ran an event in Manchester for 100 Fellows to
explore - among other things - how staff could best support connections
and communications between Fellows, and what Fellows could do for
themselves. You can [find it
here](http://www.thersa.org/networksplatform/projects/rsa-exchange-manchester){.wiki_link_ext}
on the RSA networks plaform (login required).\
\
Here’s the summary presentation:\
\
[Rsa Exchange Manchester What You
Said](http://www.slideshare.net/davidwilcox/rsa-exchange-manchester-what-you-said-presentation?type=presentation "Rsa Exchange Manchester What You Said")
View more [presentations](http://www.slideshare.net/) or
[upload](http://www.slideshare.net/upload?type=presentation) your own.
(tags: [rsa](http://slideshare.net/tag/rsa))

\
## []()Fellows don’t need to ask permission - just do it! {#toc0}

One of the strong themes was emphasis on Fellows taking responsibility
for themselves (slide 15\
-   The RSA needs to reaffirm the fact that you don’t need permission
    from anywhere – John Adam Street or regional committees – to
    interact, communicate, organise or develop project ideas as Fellows.
    Don’t wait to be asked!
-   We need to foster identity and ownership of the organisation within
    the Fellowship
-   Part of a Fellow’s responsibility is to spread the word and be
    ambassadorial

\
Here are extracts from reports on the RSAN site, particularly relating
to connections, communications and responsibilities\
\
### []()Responsibilities zone {#toc1}

-   Concern over a lack of tools and a confused introduction to
    Fellowship
-   Tools are being developed, and will take into account ideas and
    comments discussed today – can be developed in tandem
-   Idea that action and responsibility can be proactive and not wait
    for development of tools
-   Idea of more experienced Fellows welcoming new Fellows – personal
    introduction
-   Role of a sponsor to welcome and support a new Fellow if you
    nominate someone else to join

\
## []()Connections zone {#toc2}

Fellows clearly demonstrated that they do not feel that they have the
requisite permissions and/ or tools to be able to act for themselves in
making connections and acting independently but as a part of the RSA. In
this respect there is a disconnect between how the RSA would like
Fellows to be ‘self governing’ and the perspective of what is considered
permissible activity on behalf of the Fellows. There was some
recognition that Fellows have to do more for themselves in the
organising and convening of ‘events’ rather than rely on the central
body to provide everything. Better communication between Fellows would
aid this process, and the RSA needs to overcome the problems presented
by the Data Protection Act.\
\
## []()Models for connecting {#toc3}

-   It was thought that with a stronger more knowledgeable Fellowship,
    in terms of understanding the core RSA mission and future direction,
    an environment could be created whereby Fellowship activity and
    Connections become normal and regular activities.
-   In order to achieve this then the structures which exist must not
    be exclusive. Fellows used words such as, “Clique” and “Old Boys
    Club” to describe the nature of some of the current
    Regional Committees. Another Fellow described himself as being
    “Horrified” upon his first encounter with the Regional Committee. It
    was also suggested that the society as a whole, but particularly the
    Committees, were not in the least bit diverse, being as they are
    made up of predominantly older, white men.
-   Face to Face Connections were considered extremely valuable. The
    work of VLF being mentioned as particularly valuable in the
    development of the North West and Manchester Networks. A facilitator
    who knows them and can make introductions was deemed as being
    very valuable. Whilst this is most likely, at present, to be an
    Outreach worker, in future it could be part of the role of Key
    Fellows within the region to broker these connections.
-   There is some concern, or rather a lack of understanding as to what
    the RSA would like the Fellowship to do for themselves and how that
    relates to the governance of local regions and their relationship
    to JAS.

\
## []()Communications zone {#toc4}

\
### []()Networks platform {#toc5}

\
Most of the people who were a part of the session groups had minimal
experience with the Networks platform. Either they had tried it once and
been disappointed or had not tried it at all. Many of the suggestions
were related to how they wanted to connect.\
-   ability for local mapping- contacts locally, regionally nationally
    and internationally
-   provision of complementary communications methods through platform:
    email, skype, linkedin etc,
-   Space to initiate face to face networks from the online platform
-   major benefit of the platform would be to get global perspective on
    issues in addition to the face to face
-   Can’t just be geographical based. It also needs to be issue based in
    order to have a wider understanding and gain from the full breadth
    of experience of the Fellowship
-   Variety of forums to facilitate= must be maintained
-   should there be a requirement to fellows to be involved on the
    platform as part of their fellowship?
-   Superdatabase to connect people to projects by geography and issue

\
### []()Face-to-face {#toc6}

The most salient thing to come out of both sessions was the want to meet
other Fellows face to face and to have meaningful communication to and
from other Fellows.\
The example of the Manchester network that takes place at Urbis was
cited as a good example as well as the Durham network. The presence of
an outreach team was seen as a positive step in the right direction for
facilitating these networks. However, one Fellow expressed that he
thought that he needed permission to create a group with other Fellows.
He was told that he needs no one’s permission- not a committee- not JAS
- in order to create a group/project etc with other Fellows.\
\
[Invitation](Invitation.html){.wiki_link}\
[Draft programme](Programme.html){.wiki_link}\
[Resources](Resources.html){.wiki_link}\
[Join in discussion](Joining%20in%20the%20discussion.html){.wiki_link}\
[Back to workshop home
&gt;](February%202009%20workshop.html){.wiki_link}<span
style="font-family: Arial;">\
</span>
